CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guidelines

Before sending a Pull Request or opening an Issue, ensure it adheres to the following guidelines and policies.

Search previous suggestions and open issues before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.

The simplest way to contribute to this project is to look at [Issues](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/issues) or open [Pull Requests](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/pulls), your help and feedback is precious.

## Adding a resource

### Is it "awesome"?

For a resource to be added to the list, it must reach a minimum quality standard:

- It must be in a minimal working state (and documented on how to make it work);
- It must have a clear purpose (implementation reference is okay, too) and/or provide something interesting;
- It must provide a minimal documentation/README briefly describing what is the project and how to make use of it.

If the resource is still work in progress, abandoned or you don't think reaches the described standard BUT it's still related to Game Boy develelopment add it to the MORE.md file.

### Issue

If you are not confident in forking the repository, making the changes and sending a Pull Request, you can have a resource added to the list simply opening an Issue reporting the resource(s) you think could be a nice addition. Be sure to tag the Issue with the `addition` label. Someone will look at it and make a PR for you.

Obviously, you can use Issues to discuss anything about the list.


### Pull Request

- Make an individual pull request for each suggestion.
- Use the following format: `[resource](link) - Description.`
- Additions should be added to the bottom of the relevant category.
- New categories or improvements to the existing categorization are appreciated. You're welcome to discuss discrimination and categorization criteria in Issues/PRs.
- Keep descriptions short and simple, but descriptive, pointing out the particularities or major features of the resource.
- Start the description with a capital and end with a full stop/period.
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- It's `Game Boy`, not `gameboy`, `game boy` or `GameBoy`, however, you should honor the title or name of the resource while linking it, even if it's using a wrong lettering \[[1](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/issues/34)\].
- Games and Homebrews go to the GAMES.md file.
- Open source emulators go to the EMULATORS.md file.

## Removing unavailable resources

You're welcome to remove any broken link in the repository, but first try to find a reliable mirror and replace it:

- Check on [Archive.org](https://archive.org/) and Google Cache;
- We may already mirrored it in [*The Game Boy Archive*](https://github.com/gb-archive/core) project;
- Try the GitHub search.

Then, **open an Issue** with the label `missing` with the resource link, description and any other useful details.

You can then proceed to remove the broken link (or wait for someone to do it).

If you have some old and unavailable resource (not necessarly listed in the missing list) archived in your hard disk that maybe in the interest (even historical!) of the Game Boy development community, please open an Issue attaching or linking the resource.

#### Thank you!

Commit message:

Improvements. Add Correcting and improving a resource policy (#111)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guidelines

Before sending a Pull Request or opening an Issue, ensure it adheres to the following guidelines and policies.

Search previous suggestions and open issues before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.

The simplest way to contribute to this project is to look at [Issues](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/issues) or open [Pull Requests](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/pulls), your help and feedback is precious.


## Adding a resource

### Is it "awesome"?

For a resource to be added to the list, it must reach a minimum quality standard:

- It must be in a minimal working state (and documented on how to make it work);
- It must have a clear purpose (implementation reference is okay, too) and/or provide something interesting;
- It must provide a minimal documentation/README briefly describing what is the project and how to make use of it.

If the resource is still work in progress, abandoned or you don't think reaches the described standard BUT it's still related to Game Boy develelopment/hacking add it to the MORE.md file.

### Issue

If you are not confident in forking the repository, making the changes and sending a Pull Request, you can have a resource added to the list simply opening an Issue reporting the resource(s) you think could be a nice addition. Be sure to tag the Issue with the `addition` label. Someone will look at it and make a PR for you.

Obviously, you can use Issues to discuss anything about the list.

### Pull Request

- Make an individual pull request for each suggestion.
- Use the following format: `[resource](link) - Description.`
- Additions should be added to the bottom of the relevant category.
- New categories or improvements to the existing categorization are appreciated. You're welcome to discuss discrimination and categorization criteria in Issues/PRs.
- Keep descriptions short and simple, but descriptive, pointing out the particularities or major features of the resource.
- Start the description with a capital and end with a full stop/period.
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- It's `Game Boy`, not `gameboy`, `game boy` or `GameBoy`, however, you should honor the title or name of the resource while linking it, even if it's using a wrong lettering \[[1](https://github.com/avivace/awesome-gbdev/issues/34)\].
- Games and Homebrews go to the GAMES.md file.
- Open source emulators go to the EMULATORS.md file.

## Correcting and improving resources

Most of the linked resources are hosted on Git repository. You are encouraged to report errors in the corrisponding upstream repository or contact the authors. If the correction doesn't get merged, fork it and mantain an updated/correct version and open a PR replacing the link on the list with your version.

In any case, open an Issue mentioning the error and its magnitude. This can have two outcomes:

- If the resource is unique/important - while we wait for the error getting corrected in the upstream source - we add an Errata notice next near the link. OR
- The resource gets moved in MORE, until it reaches a decent/maintanable/correct state.

## Not awesome

If you think something doesn't fit the list, open an Issue or a PR mentioning the reasons.

## Removing unavailable resources

You're welcome to remove any broken link in the repository, but first try to find a reliable mirror and replace it:

- Check on [Archive.org](https://archive.org/) and Google Cache;
- We may already mirrored it in [*The Game Boy Archive*](https://github.com/gb-archive/core) project;
- Try the GitHub search.

Then, **open an Issue** with the label `missing` with the resource link, description and any other useful details.

You can then proceed to remove the broken link (or wait for someone to do it).

If you have some old and unavailable resource (not necessarly listed in the missing list) archived in your hard disk that maybe in the interest (even historical!) of the Game Boy development community, please open an Issue attaching or linking the resource.

#### Thank you!
