MORE.md, before:

# More


- [gameboy homebrew](https://github.com/ProudGecko/gameboy) - Gameboy Homebrew Development (David Schamber).
- [How to make a (GameBoy) emulator?](https://github.com/gb-archive/salvage/blob/master/misc/Petar-V-emulation.pdf) by Petar Veličković, University of Cambridge.
- [New Down and Dirty Gameboy VRAM Timing Document + Test ROM](http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?t=7861) by Kevtris.
- [Open Game Boy Documentation Project](https://mgba-emu.github.io/gbdoc/) - WIP documentation effort. Similar to Pan Docs but corrected and in a single page.
- [Game Boy CPU Manual](http://marc.rawer.de/Gameboy/Docs/GBCPUman.pdf) - Assembly language commands, timings and opcodes. Has some inaccuracies and errors.
- [GBDK tutorials in french](https://blog.flozz.fr/2018/10/01/developpement-gameboy-1-hello-world/)

### Tools

- [GBZ80 to items](http://issotm.github.io/gbz80toitems3/) - An online converter, translates Game Boy assembly into Pokémon R/B/Y items ([Source](https://github.com/ISSOtm/gbz80-to-items)).

### Documentation

- [GB ASM Tips](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gb-archive/salvage/master/txt-files/gb-asm-tips.txt) - Some tips for coding in Assembly by Jeff Frohwein.
- [GB Instructions](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gb-archive/salvage/master/txt-files/gb-instructions.txt) Game Boy Assembly commands.
- [GB Technical Information](http://fms.komkon.org/GameBoy/Tech/) - Some old code resources.

### Cheatsheets

- http://www.devrs.com/gb/files/opcodes.html
- http://goldencrystal.free.fr/GBZ80Opcodes.pdf
- https://github.com/gb-archive/salvage/blob/master/misc/GBCribSheet000129.pdf - https://github.com/JustinLloyd/Gameboy-Cribsheet

Commit message:

MORE.md: Add Asm83 and Cate83 toolchain entries (#250)
Add the new sm83 assembler and compiler that were recently released.

MORE.md, after:

# More


- [gameboy homebrew](https://github.com/ProudGecko/gameboy) - Gameboy Homebrew Development (David Schamber).
- [How to make a (GameBoy) emulator?](https://github.com/gb-archive/salvage/blob/master/misc/Petar-V-emulation.pdf) by Petar Veličković, University of Cambridge.
- [New Down and Dirty Gameboy VRAM Timing Document + Test ROM](http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?t=7861) by Kevtris.
- [Open Game Boy Documentation Project](https://mgba-emu.github.io/gbdoc/) - WIP documentation effort. Similar to Pan Docs but corrected and in a single page.
- [Game Boy CPU Manual](http://marc.rawer.de/Gameboy/Docs/GBCPUman.pdf) - Assembly language commands, timings and opcodes. Has some inaccuracies and errors.
- [GBDK tutorials in french](https://blog.flozz.fr/2018/10/01/developpement-gameboy-1-hello-world/)

### Tools

- [GBZ80 to items](http://issotm.github.io/gbz80toitems3/) - An online converter, translates Game Boy assembly into Pokémon R/B/Y items ([Source](https://github.com/ISSOtm/gbz80-to-items)).

### Software Development
- [Asm83](https://github.com/inufuto/asm8) - An Assembler, linker and librarian for retro CPUs including the sm83 (Game Boy)
- [Cate83](https://github.com/inufuto/Cate) - A C-like programming language compiler for sm83 cpus (Game Boy)
  - There are [several example game programs](https://github.com/inufuto/Cate_examples/tree/main/megaduck) for the MegaDuck (a Game Boy clone)

### Documentation

- [GB ASM Tips](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gb-archive/salvage/master/txt-files/gb-asm-tips.txt) - Some tips for coding in Assembly by Jeff Frohwein.
- [GB Instructions](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gb-archive/salvage/master/txt-files/gb-instructions.txt) Game Boy Assembly commands.
- [GB Technical Information](http://fms.komkon.org/GameBoy/Tech/) - Some old code resources.

### Cheatsheets

- http://www.devrs.com/gb/files/opcodes.html
- http://goldencrystal.free.fr/GBZ80Opcodes.pdf
- https://github.com/gb-archive/salvage/blob/master/misc/GBCribSheet000129.pdf - https://github.com/JustinLloyd/Gameboy-Cribsheet
